We must know Jehovah well.
That means knowing his thinking on matters.
We should welcome such an examination
and make any necessary changes.
For example,
let’s read 1 Corinthians 15:33 together.
Here we read:
“Do not be misled.
Bad associations spoil useful habits.”
As familiar as that principle is,
can you think of an area in your life
where it’s difficult to apply?
Hey, John.
I know it’s not your usual,
but there’s no one
to entertain those clients tonight.
So can you do it?
Thanks.
But I have . . .
Great.
Until then,
it wasn’t my usual thing.
But I need to support my family.
And these aren’t really my friends.
I can handle it.
I think.
. . . we’re faced with bad associations
in subtle ways.
This may require us to ask additional questions
of ourselves.
Are we letting in bad association
through social media?
Perhaps we can think
of another way bad association . . .
I don’t think so
—except for some friends
from my old congregation.
Wow!
They’re not doing so well spiritually.
But if I stay connected
and see what they’re doing,
maybe I can help them.
. . . can affect us.
Maybe it’s something very specific.
Or maybe
bad association is coming from a place
we never expected.
I only join games with Witness friends I know.
But sometimes
they connect with people I don’t know
who pick games I’m not sure we should play.
But maybe my friends know them,
so they’re probably OK.
It is vital that we avoid bad associations.
Now, as we resume in Psalm 26 . . .
I thought that talk didn’t apply to me.
But can I really handle bad association?
If I take a stand, I may lose my job.
But that’s being anxious about tomorrow.
Jesus said:
“So never be anxious and say,
“‘What are we to eat?’ or,
“‘What are we to drink?’ or,
‘What are we to wear?’”
Jehovah knows I need a job.
And I need to set a good example
for when my children face bad association.
1 Corinthians 15:33.
My friends’ posts are getting worse
—their pictures and comments.
Hmm, 2 Timothy 2:16.
“But reject empty speeches
“that violate what is holy,
for they will lead to more and more ungodliness.”
I’m letting them share
“empty speeches” with me online.
I will try to help them while I still can,
but following their posts is not the way to do it.
I told Mom what’s been happening when I game
with my friends.
She gave me good ideas on what to look for
in the Research Guide.
“Christian Life.”
“Association.”
“Is Your Recreation Beneficial?”
“Who Are My Companions?”
It says,
“Who are the ones I want
to share my leisure time with?”
“Does he have the same Bible-based
values and morals that I have?”
Good question.
I don’t even know who they are sometimes.
Psalm 119:63 says:
“I am a friend of all who fear you
and of those who keep your orders.”
But if I only know them online,
I can’t know if they fear Jehovah.
Let’s turn in our Bibles to the book
of 1 Timothy 1:5
and notice how it reads:
“Really, the objective of this instruction
“is love out of a clean heart
“and out of a good conscience
and out of faith without hypocrisy.”
We train our conscience
with Bible principles
that reveal Jehovah’s thinking.
There may be several principles needed
for our unique problem.
But when we find
and apply them,
we’ll enjoy a clean heart and a good conscience.